README.md, before:

# MCP GraphQL

An MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that enables interaction with GraphQL APIs.

## Description

MCP GraphQL is a tool that implements the Model Context Protocol (MCP) to provide a standardized interface for interacting with GraphQL APIs. It automatically exposes each GraphQL query as a separate MCP tool, allowing MCP-compatible clients to seamlessly communicate with GraphQL services.

## Features

- Each GraphQL query is exposed as a distinct MCP tool
- Tool parameters automatically match the corresponding GraphQL query parameters
- JSON schema for tool inputs is dynamically generated from GraphQL query parameters
- No schema definition required - simply provide the API URL and credentials
- Currently supports GraphQL queries (mutations support planned for future releases)
- Configurable authentication (Bearer, Basic, custom headers)
- Automatic handling of complex GraphQL types

## Requirements

- Python 3.11 or higher

## Installation

### Using uv (recommended)

When using [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) no specific installation is needed. We will
use [`uvx`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/tools/) to directly run *mcp-graphql*.

### Using pip

Alternatively you can install `mcp-graphql` via pip:

```bash
pip install mcp-graphql
```

### Installation from source code

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/mcp_graphql.git
cd mcp_graphql
pip install .
```

## Usage

### As a command line tool

Using uvx:
```bash
uvx mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```

Using pip installation:
```bash
mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```
or
```bash
python -m mcp_graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```

### Available options

- `--api-url`: GraphQL API URL (required)
- `--auth-token`: Authentication token (optional)
- `--auth-type`: Authentication type, default is "Bearer" (optional)
- `--auth-headers`: Custom authentication headers in JSON format (optional)

Example with custom headers:

```bash
mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-headers='{"Authorization": "Bearer token", "X-API-Key": "key"}'
```

### As a library

```python
import asyncio
from mcp_graphql import serve

auth_headers = {"Authorization": "Bearer your-token"}
api_url = "https://api.example.com/graphql"

asyncio.run(serve(api_url, auth_headers))
```

## Configuration

### Configure for Claude.app

Add to your Claude settings:

<details>
<summary>Using uvx</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "uvx",
    "args": ["mcp-graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Using docker</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "docker",
    "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "mcp/graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Using pip installation</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "python",
    "args": ["-m", "mcp_graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

## How It Works

MCP GraphQL automatically:

1. Introspects the provided GraphQL API
2. Creates an MCP tool for each available GraphQL query
3. Generates JSON schema for tool inputs based on query parameters
4. Handles type conversions between GraphQL and JSON

When a tool is called, the server:
1. Converts the tool call parameters to a GraphQL query
2. Executes the query against the API
3. Returns the results to the MCP client

## Planned Features

- Support for GraphQL mutations (with appropriate safeguards)
- Improved error handling and validation
- Additional optimizations based on specific GraphQL API implementations

## Development

### Setting up the development environment

```bash
# Create virtual environment using uv
uv venv

# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

### Linting

```bash
ruff check .
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please feel free to submit a Pull Request or open an Issue.

Commit message:

feat(back): add support for predefined GraphQL queries
- Introduced a new command-line option to specify a file containing predefined GraphQL queries.
- Enhanced the server lifecycle management to parse and load queries from the specified file.
- Updated the tool execution logic to allow for predefined queries, improving flexibility and usability.
- Added error handling for query parsing to ensure robustness.

README.md, after:

# MCP GraphQL

An MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that enables interaction with GraphQL APIs.

## Description

MCP GraphQL is a tool that implements the Model Context Protocol (MCP) to provide a standardized interface for interacting with GraphQL APIs. It automatically exposes each GraphQL query as a separate MCP tool, allowing MCP-compatible clients to seamlessly communicate with GraphQL services.

## Features

- Each GraphQL query is exposed as a distinct MCP tool
- Tool parameters automatically match the corresponding GraphQL query parameters
- JSON schema for tool inputs is dynamically generated from GraphQL query parameters
- No schema definition required - simply provide the API URL and credentials
- Currently supports GraphQL queries (mutations support planned for future releases)
- Configurable authentication (Bearer, Basic, custom headers)
- Automatic handling of complex GraphQL types

## Requirements

- Python 3.11 or higher

## Installation

### Using uv (recommended)

When using [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) no specific installation is needed. We will
use [`uvx`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/tools/) to directly run *mcp-graphql*.

### Using pip

Alternatively you can install `mcp-graphql` via pip:

```bash
pip install mcp-graphql
```

### Installation from source code

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/mcp_graphql.git
cd mcp_graphql
pip install .
```

## Usage

### As a command line tool

Using uvx:
```bash
uvx mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```

Using pip installation:
```bash
mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```
or
```bash
python -m mcp_graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-token="your-token"
```

### Available options

- `--api-url`: GraphQL API URL (required)
- `--auth-token`: Authentication token (optional, can also be set via `MCP_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable)
- `--auth-type`: Authentication type, default is "Bearer" (optional)
- `--auth-headers`: Custom authentication headers in JSON format (optional)

Example with custom headers:

```bash
mcp-graphql --api-url="https://api.example.com/graphql" --auth-headers='{"Authorization": "Bearer token", "X-API-Key": "key"}'
```

### As a library

```python
import asyncio
from mcp_graphql import serve

auth_headers = {"Authorization": "Bearer your-token"}
api_url = "https://api.example.com/graphql"

asyncio.run(serve(api_url, auth_headers))
```

## Configuration

### Configure for Claude.app

Add to your Claude settings:

<details>
<summary>Using uvx</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "uvx",
    "args": ["mcp-graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Using docker</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "docker",
    "args": ["run", "-i", "--rm", "mcp/graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Using pip installation</summary>

```json
"mcpServers": {
  "graphql": {
    "command": "python",
    "args": ["-m", "mcp_graphql", "--api-url", "https://api.example.com/graphql"]
  }
}
```
</details>

## How It Works

MCP GraphQL automatically:

1. Introspects the provided GraphQL API
2. Creates an MCP tool for each available GraphQL query
3. Generates JSON schema for tool inputs based on query parameters
4. Handles type conversions between GraphQL and JSON

When a tool is called, the server:
1. Converts the tool call parameters to a GraphQL query
2. Executes the query against the API
3. Returns the results to the MCP client

## Planned Features

- Support for GraphQL mutations (with appropriate safeguards)
- Improved error handling and validation
- Additional optimizations based on specific GraphQL API implementations

## Development

### Setting up the development environment

```bash
# Create virtual environment using uv
uv venv

# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

### Linting

```bash
ruff check .
```

### Running the server in development mode

When working locally you can start the MCP GraphQL server with hot-reloading and inspect its tools using the Model Context Protocol Inspector:

```bash
npx "@modelcontextprotocol/inspector" uv run -n --project $PWD mcp-graphql --api-url http://localhost:3010/graphql
```

Replace `http://localhost:3010/graphql` with the URL of your local GraphQL endpoint if it differs.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please feel free to submit a Pull Request or open an Issue.
